the United States has circulated a draft
un Security Council resolution calling
for an immediate ceasefire linked to the
release of hostages in the Gaza Strip
during a visit to Saudi Arabia US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
emphasized the need to protect gazan
civilians and provide humanitarian Aid
the draft resolution is an about face
for the US which last month vetoed a
call at the UN for such a truce Lincoln
is now on to Egypt and then on Friday
will continue on to
Israel here's what blink had to say to a
Saudi media
Outlet we actually have a resolution he
said that we put forward right now that
does call for an immediate ceasefire
tied to the release of hostages and we
hope very much that countries will
support
that for more on this we can talk now to
journalists balig sladin in Tel Aviv and
and Karim elari in Cairo kareim to you
first this shift in the US position on a
ceasefire in Gaza how is that likely to
be seen in the region particularly in
Egypt where Anthony blinkin is holding
talks
today well I think the hope is that this
will give some impetus it will boost the
ceasefire negotiations that are going on
of course in the background uh we know
that there's a basic agreement of
six weeks ceasefire in exchange for
reasing hostages 40 hostages and then in
exchange releasing uh the 20 or 30 fault
of Palestinian prisoners from Israeli
prisons but of course there are lot of
disagreement still and this is the hope
that this new UN us initiative will
boost this the there is differences the
difference one of them is like Hamas is
demanding a list with hostages that are
still alive Hamas refusing it Hamas on
the other side is asking for um to pick
the names for the Palestinians who are
relased from Palestinian prisons they
ask for at least a hundred of them with
life sentences Israel is refusing that
and on it's on the other hand is asking
that possibly to deport some of the
released Palestinian prisoners to third
countries and finally there's of course
the hope that there will be further
ceasefire and further releases but Hamas
is connecting this to like um uh a
permanent ceasefire to an end of the war
and that is of course something netan is
refusing because of his objective to
destroy Hamas so despite of this change
of the UN positions there is still a lot
of work still a lot of disagreement in
this
negotiations now bik in Tel Aviv uh what
about Israel how is Israel likely to
react to this Push by the
US
making a huge deal of this statement by
Blink here in Israel and I do understand
why what we have for now is a statement
by blinkin in an interview with the
Saudi media saying that the US issued a
proposal to the UN Security Council on
the state on the basis of an immediate
ceasefire Target to the release of the
hostages we didn't see the details of
that proposal yet the issue here is less
about the ceasefire being immediate or
not but whether it's a permanent
ceasefire something that wouldn't be
acceptable in Israel and honestly don't
think that the US would ever call for
such a thing secondly when blink saying
it's tight to the release of the
hostages does he mean that a ceasefire
would be an unconditional release of the
hostages because if that's the case in
Israel that will be 100% for it
something that I don't imagine Hamas
accepting even if the uh uh un Security
Council proposal uh passes and lastly
blink saying that this UN resolution
proposal will send the message I see
three parties here getting this message
the first two are of course Hamas and
Israel that engage right now in the toes
and Doha and such a proposal would put
pressure on them to accept the terms of
the negotiations but thirdly and maybe
I'm not here to talk about the US
politics but it's definitely a message
also to the uh Democratic voters ahead
of the election saying here we are we
are pushing for ceire as you're
demanding in in
Gaza kareim tell us more about the
situation in Gaza right now it sounds
like the need for food assistance there
has become absolutely
critical well I mean let's not stay with
anecdotical evidence I mean we have a
clear statement by wfp the world food
organization that famine is imminent
between now and May and they don't say
this lightly there's clear indicators
when the UN is announcing an imminent a
famine or a famine and some of it is the
insecurity of food the situation of
insecurity of food in Gaza the other one
is the malnutrition of children so wfp
decided that it's the time now to
announce that we are an imminent if of
famine uh people in Gaza are starving to
death right now the wfp executive
director Cindy McCain is saying man by a
man-made hunger and Mal nutrition crisis
uh she is saying that there's a very
small window left to prevent an outright
famine and to do that we need
immediately and full access to the north
that means through Israel and if you
wait until famine has been declared it's
too late thousands more will be dead
says the head of
wfp Kareem thank you very much that was
Kareem algari in Cairo and in Tel aiv we
were speaking with balik sladin thank
you very much to you
both